# Foundation
The [[Oblitus]] Foundation, closely inspired by the [SCP Foundation](https://scp-wiki.wikidot.com/), is an international organization dedicated to the containment and concealment of supernatural phenomena. They are a vast, Kafkaesque, bureaucracy characterized by their moral "flexibility". Even human sacrifice, if deemed necessary for containment, can be justified by their cold, utilitarian ethics.

For players, the Foundation is the default entry point to the game. When we add tutorials for different mechanics like controls or combat, they will be in-world training facilitated by the Foundation (for example, learning to shoot at an underground firing range).

[Missions](Quests) offered by the Foundation are characterized by their low-risk and low-reward. "Low-risk" does not actually mean a low chance of death, however, rather that the Foundation's generous life insurance policy (to be inherited by your other [characters](Character)/next character) ensures that from the player's perspective, you can't really go wrong working for them. These missions typically entail containing an anomalous hazard (think: localized zombie/demon/??? outbreak) or assaulting vampire hideouts in SWAT raids.

You also don't really need to understand the game to have a good build when working for the Foundation. You'll be issued equipment appropriate for your stats (for example, low agility characters will not be issued marksman rifles) and services provided at their [underground facilities](Settlement) are highly standardized and legible.

# Tribunal
The Midnight Tribunal, inspired by the [Camarilla](https://whitewolf.fandom.com/wiki/Camarilla_(VTM)), is an international criminal syndicate largely composed of powerful vampire clans but also any other organized group of fantastical ne'er-do-wells like dark sorcerers or assassins. Despite officially being enemies of the Foundation, their relatively more orderly approach to crime makes them lower priority than their mutual enemies: free clans. That doesn't mean that the Foundation won't take action against them when they slip up and expose themselves, but rather that the Foundation doesn't go out of its way to antagonize them. During desperate times, they have even cooperated to maintain the secrecy of the [[Oblitus]] or prevent the outbreak of especially dangerous anomalies.

Playing as a character working for the Tribunal is a highly lucrative and competitive position. Even being taken in as a human henchman typically comes with reasonably high standards for both the competence of your character as well as you, the player. They do not hand out trust about their operations lightly, and when they do, limit knowledge as much as possible to a need-to-know basis.

But being sired as a *vampire* is an entirely different level, as this privilege is reserved only for the select few who have proven their loyalty and competence. Any Tribunal vampire is likely to be extraordinarily individually powerful and well-equipped, not to mention their personal command of human goons under their leadership.

Missions offered by factions within the Tribunal tend to be centered around maintaining their existing power, not acquiring more. This means covering up violations of the masquerade (generally through hit squads), squashing dissent within vassal clans, and destroying any anarchs careless enough for their operations to be discovered.

All vampires (and their henchmen) also may conduct missions to kidnap victims or for the vampires themselves, sneak into a human NPC's house to feed on them. This is probably pretty uncommon for vampires in belonging to the greater clans, however, as they can afford to keep a supply of cattle at their hideouts.

[[Settlement|Services]] offered by Tribunal clans are more fragmented and less standardized than those of the Foundation, as each clan maintains its own set of services, but they are also required to share access to these services between member clans. This encourages some amount of specialization between clans, so if you want to purchase high-end firearms you might want to visit a hub of a particular clan that specializes in firearms, for example. This privilege is even extended to particularly well-behaved (or well-financed) individuals outside of the Tribunal, such as their vassals or even certain Foundationers.
# Lesser Clans
Any vampire clan not powerful enough to be entitled to a seat at the Midnight Tribunal must decide whether to seek the protection of one that is or operate without the Tribunal's sanction.
## Vassal Clans
Vassal clans are be constrained by the laws of the Tribunal, but not actually entitled to the entire Tribunal's protection. Meaning that although Tribunal clans are directly prohibited from aggressing upon *each other*, they are not necessarily prohibited from aggressing upon each other's vassals. Likewise, vassals are legally free to squabble amongst each other.

This does not mean, however, that it's always open war between all vassals. Typically a Tribunal clan will make an effort to keep its vassals from fighting each other, and may even extend this semi-formal protection to vassals of other Tribunal clans that they are on particularly good terms with. Thus there is always an element of politics and diplomacy at play when it comes to conflict involving vassal clans.
## Free Clans
Free Clans do not operate within any legal framework sanctioned by the Midnight Tribunal. This means that their actions are entirely unrestricted, enabling then to undertake means of revenue generation or warfare that the Tribunal considers too destructive to permit, lest it provoke the attention of the Foundation. The most powerful advantage they have is their cavalier attitude toward siring vampires and their somewhat more relaxed approach to the masquerade, which means that they can quickly and cheaply recruit large numbers of relatively powerful members.

Despite their advantages in the scope of their activities, they generally aren't more economically successful than their peers who play by the rules due to the high rate of attrition that comes from being the primary targets of the Foundation. Free clans are generally more motivated by ideological motives rather than financial ones, yet these motives are not at all unified.

Due to being enemies of both the Tribunal and the Foundation and their small cell-based size, members of free clans rely on a patchwork selection of extremely limited services, if any. Any equipment beyond that which can be purchased off-the-shelf from civilian sources is generally all acquired by theft and raids. Even the civilian stuff will do the job, however, as semi-auto AR15s are pretty good and silver bullets are pretty easy to manufacture.
### Anarchs
Anarchs reject the premise of the Midnight Tribunal. This is often on the basis of its aristocratic/capitalistic framework, though certain anarch-identified factions may even reject the premise of the masquerade/Oblitus altogether. Some argue that the mass deception of the mortal world is effectively a tool by which "the powers that be" are able to control ordinary people. These anarchs, obviously, are considered by virtually everyone else in The [[Oblitus]] to be the most fundamental threat to the world order. Or at least they would be, if they were unified and powerful enough to do anything about it.

These factions resemble their very obvious real-world analogues: communist revolutionaries, and are generally prone to the same problems that their real-world counterparts often face of infighting and a reluctance to participate in a system that they are fundamentally opposed to. In their case they even have an additional problem, which is that due to generally having a very pro-human system of ethics, obtaining blood "ethically" is a difficult logistical problem (perhaps by maintaining a harem of voluntary cattle with a "bloodplay kink"). Of course they can also tend to favor more human members, but humans are less powerful.

Not being motivated as much by money, anarchs are often able to get by through limited revenue streams, primarily by simply stealing from Tribunal-aligned clans. They generally aren't stupid enough to directly target the Foundation in their missions, nor would they especially want to as they perceive individual Foundationers as naive, good-hearted humans. Instead, their ideologically motivated missions are generally assassination, sabotage, and territorial warfare against their fellow Tribunal-aligned kindred.

The particularly naive may, at times, also attempt missions to raise awareness of The [[Oblitus]] to the general public. This isn't something that players will likely actually do though, as these missions are necessarily futile and practically suicidal, as the Foundation will [[Oblitus#But what about smartphones?|immediately shut down any attempt before it succeeds]].
### Cultists
Though not necessarily vampires, cultists are motivated by a very different kind of ideology, if you can call it that. They commune with demons and cosmic horrors, generally being offered [[Magic|demonic power]] or a place among the would-be order that they seek to herald.

Due to the fact that their members aren't typically motivated by material wealth, you might say that cults are able to operate with a considerably higher ratio of investment than other factions. With no real salaries, insurance payouts, or dividends to the top of the pyramid to worry about, they are able to operate with both low revenue and low expense, and with assistance beyond the material plane, they are able to punch significantly above their weight. Thus, they are often the primary targets of the Foundation.

Missions available to characters in cults include theft, kidnapping (for purposes of indoctrination or sacrifice), causing containment breaches within Foundation sites to release entities belonging to their otherworldly patrons.