# Oblitus
*The Hidden World*

The "Oblitus" is the secret world of supernatural phenomena and the organizations dedicated to its containment, secrecy, or exploitation. To be privy to the Oblitus is to possess esoteric knowledge of the existence of that cannot be explained by the known laws of nature. Magic, vampires, demons, and inexplicable anomalies coexist with the rational world as we know it, and are kept secret through the tireless efforts of the [[Factions#Foundation|Foundation]] and the *profitable* efforts of the [Tribunal](Factions^Tribunal).

The [Latin word "Oblitus" means "forgotten"](https://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/oblitus). This secret world was not always so secret. In the pre-modern era, the beliefs which we now ascribe to the superstition of our ignorant ancestors was actually, more or less, the now-forgotten truth. But the progress of technology and the increasing power of nation states brought about an existential threat to the supernatural world. Witch hunts, once localized and ineffectual, could now be carried out with the combined might of an advanced bureaucratic state. If the supernatural world wished to survive, it would have to do so in [[Factions#Tribunal|secrecy]]. 

The governments of the world were all to happy to go along with this, as not *all* anomalies could be permanently eradicated. Demons, infoviruses, and eldritch horrors continuously bubble up through the fringes of the noosphere, threatening mass panic about their existence, or worse, apocalypse itself. Governments would tolerate the continued existence of the likes of vampires so long as the supernaturals assisted them in the containment of cults and the horrors that they beckon. Thus, the [[Factions#Foundation|Foundation]] was chartered and funded to be mankind's bureaucratic apparatus within The Oblitus.

To this day, the [[Factions#Foundation|Foundation]] maintains near-absolute supremacy within The Oblitus. What mundane humans lack in supernatural power they make up for with sheer numbers, funding, and ingenuity. They are limited, however, by information. They may have mass technological surveillance and an army of field agents at their hand, but they do not have eyes and ears in every basement or "abandoned" building. And for every mole they have within enemy clans or cults, their enemy has two within their own ranks. Thus, in a world literally defined by its secrecy, the most valuable resource is neither money nor power--it's secrecy itself.

## But what about smartphones?
Yes, this is still a world that has the internet and smartphone cameras everywhere, but it also has [antimemetics](https://scp-wiki.wikidot.com/antimemetics-division-hub) and an *even more robust* system of mass surveillance. *All* governments and corporations comply with the Foundation (whether their public leadership knows this or not).