# Adventure Simulator (working title)
## A web-first pseudo-MMO
The golden age of web games had a number of pseudo-MMO games like Neopets or Club Penguin (and actual MMOs, such as Runescape) that have since largely had their markets captured by mobile games and native desktop games. But [Wasm](https://webassembly.org/), [WebGPU](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/WebGPU_API), and [data-star](https://data-star.dev/) have opened up a new opportunity to create a kind of web-first game that has not really been possible to do until recently, with near-feature and performance parity with native applications.
## Bulletin Board World
Our plan is to sidestep the nightmarish networking challenge of a unified world server by having its "world" be structured as a database with an asynchronous [HATEOAS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HATEOAS) interface, then instancing individual parties on their own virtual servers whenever they engage enemies in real-time combat. Any real-time networking can quickly become dangerously complex though, which is why we intend to keep as much state as possible on the server and use server-sent events for clients to render a sort of network-driven "[immediate mode](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Immediate_mode_(computer_graphics))" view of the world.

Player characters spend downtime, purchase equipment, join parties, and embark on quests from settlements, which also serve as a bulletin board-like social hub. Then, in the course of the quests they've undertaken, load into the real-time WebGPU-rendered combat simulation when their party arrives at their destination or is randomly attacked along the way.
## Gameplay
The nearest games for inspiration are Mount and Blade, Battle Brothers, Starsector, and (to some extent) Kenshi. Like the former three, the world is separated between the "tactical" layer and the "strategic" layer. In Adventure Simulator, the tactical layer is a real-time simulation, while the strategic layer advances is in discrete chunks of time (generally fast travel/resting). But it features the same basic formula of recruiting a party to adventure with, defeating enemies in randomly generated missions, then using your hard-earned rewards to buy equipment.

Players can also control multiple characters, which can be either mortal or immortal. Mortal characters offer a more roguelike/extraction-esque experience, with fast progression and frequent deaths. When one of your mortal characters dies, any wealth not on their person will be inherited by your other characters. Immortal characters offer a more conventional RPG/MMO-experience, which emulates the cost of mortal characters with costly respawns and slow healing.
# Setting
The world of Adventure Simulator is a fantastical version of Earth. Warhammer Fantasy players or readers of pre-Tolkien fantasy will be familiar with the idea, but essentially the setting is historical renaissance Earth (approximately ~1543) with generic fantasy elements inexplicably sprinkled throughout.

The heuristic here is to place fantasy elements in places that don't fundamentally alter historical conditions too much. Elves generally keep to forests or fictitious islands, Dwarves dwell within mountains, and creatures like orcs, goblins, beastmen, and the undead either roam as hordes or infest caves, crypts, and abandoned Dwarven settlements. To the extent that the kingdoms of men interact with these fantastical elements is generally in hiring heroes to deal with the nuisances caused by hostile fantasy creatures. Elves and Dwarves are uninterested in human political squabbles over borders and wars of succession, and fantastical enemies never really pose a strategic threat to human kingdoms, so the historical and fantastical elements of the setting can generally avoid stepping on each others' toes.

For the MVP, the playable section of Earth will be limited to Italy. But in the long term, we will gradually expand to all of Europe and beyond.
# Open-source
Adventure Simulator is designed not *only* to facilitate a fantasy game, but its open source nature means that modders can come in and take it in all sorts of unexpected directions in the future. They could do total conversions to other fantasy settings, sci-fi, or... [something else](https://fxtwitter.com/warlockracy/status/1489001741337169926).
# Design Philosophy
We would like the underlying gameplay systems to be *realistic*, as this generally offers an unambiguous answer to any design question. Its not always easy to [find out what that answer *is*](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scientific_method), nor is it always easy to implement without resorting to simplified abstractions (quantum physics are not in-scope for the MVP, to say the least). But all of the imperfect answers at least point in the same direction.

The real world is not always as fun as a game ought to be, though. Fortunately, there are two ways to circumvent this:
## Abstraction-based Approach
Holding W to walk 50km between settlements is not particularly fun. Nor is resting for several months to heal a serious injury. But these activities exist at the strategic layer of the game, and therefore a player can skip forward in time. Likewise, micromanaging inventory isn't particularly fun, but as the game becomes complex enough to necessitate this, we can also add tools to automate it (set a desired weight limit and value/weight ratio for loot).
## Content-based Approach
Being that this is a fantasy world, the fantastical elements are free variables for us to balance the game with. Suppose real-life combat is too fast for it to be viable to reliably dodge most attacks. We can simply give common fantasy enemies like goblins, orcs, or skeletons, such poor melee skills that an agile player character can reliably dodge them. Or suppose stealth is too frustrating with realistic detection ranges, we can just ensure that these fantasy creatures tend to have very poor eyesight.
# Flexibility > Fidelity
It should be easy create content for the game, and to that end, using low-fidelity procedural assets greatly reduces the barrier to this. This doesn't mean that we don't care about fidelity at all, but that it must necessarily come from procedural iteration rather than a trained CG artist. The system which Nintendo uses for Miis, for example, is a better example of how we might approach a character creator than, say, Baldur's Gate III. But that doesn't mean that we're going for an especially cartoony art style, either. There's nothing preventing a system like that from applying to more realistically proportioned characters (as they did, more or less, with Breath of the Wild and its sequel).
# Funding and Legal
We are in the process of registering with [Open Source Collective](https://oscollective.org/), a 501(c)(6) that handles the legal and administrative overhead for facilitating donors to pay contributors. The two founders, Bruno Segovia and Adler Halbe, are willing to contribute serious portions of their incomes to see at least a prototype of this through. Their contributions will largely be in the form of cash, however, as their day jobs from whence this cash originates are pretty intensive. But they will be available most days, especially in the evenings, to offer guidance and help coordinate the project.