In Adventure Simulator, time between players is kept *somewhat* in-sync. The idea is that generally, time advances at 56x speed, so that one week in the real world is one year in-game. The main purpose of this is to account for the realistic [travel distances](Travel) and [healing rate](Health) that we use, as otherwise the game would be extraordinarily boring. However, its not *exactly* in-sync, because at minimum there is also a real-time simulation for things like [combat](Combat) or navigating [difficult terrain](Difficult Terrain). Thus, each party is permitted to be a little-bit out-of-sync with each other, and can use accelerated downtime to catch up.

For example, in the [example scenario](Scenario), at the time that they venture forth from a settlement they are in sync with the official time, but their four ~20-minute simulated encounters incurs a time-debt of 80 real-world minutes. 80 minutes in the real world is about 3 days of official time, thus when their characters return to a settlement they will ostensibly be recovering, training, relaxing, traveling between [settlements](Settlement), or working some non-adventurous job for at least 3 days before they set out again.

They do not, however, need to actually catch up immediately. We really only need to keep players in the same season, approximately, to avoid things becoming too weird, so you would actually have about a day in the real world of flexibility. This translates to almost 2 months in-game, and you would normally want to stay *behind* the official time so that being wounded doesn't mean that you always have to stop playing for the day.

Even still, we aren't actually expecting everyone to log-in every day. This is why you are both expected to have several [characters](Characters) and why your characters have things to do during their downtime.